# Continuous-Go
This game is intended to be a continuous version of the board game go (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Go_(game)).

In go, black and white take turns placing stones on a 19 x 19 board. Although you can get points for (A) capturing your opponent's stones (via surrounding with adjacent stones), the primary objective of the game is to (B) capture territory (via surrounding area). In continuous go, instead of placing stones, you draw lines to outline any territory you want to capture. As adjacency is much rarer in a continuous space, the emphasis of the game is on (B), capturing territory; (A), directly capturing what has been drawn, is disallowed, and a player may only capture an opponent's drawing by occupying the territory around it. Unlike go, continuous go treats any surrounded drawing as just additional territory rather than as another source of points. The lines simply act as borders or potential borders rather than as typical game pieces.

In a single turn, you are allotted a certain length to draw. You may draw this all at once or in multiple parts. You may draw a line either by clicking and dragging or by clicking at the beginning and end of the intended line. When doing the latter you will notice a potential line appear that helps inform you where your line will go. It is forbidden to draw over an opponent's line, and you will be stopped if you try. In order to make it easier to connect lines with each other, there is a mouse magnet tool with adjustable strength. This tool attracts the mouse pointer to the nearest line if it is close enough. I recommend using the mouse magnet to ensure you don't leave gaps in the areas you are forming. Because of this tool, the game is not currently intended to be played on a touchscreen.

In go, the points earned from a territory correspond to the size of the territory: one captured space gives you one point. Likewise, in continuous go, points earned correspond to territory captured, but now a player can capture fractions of spaces. In both go and continuous go, a territory is composed of various sections that link up to form a group, whether alive or dead. Sections link up to form a group if and only if they are adjacent.

Depending on the interpretation of go, pieces inside and adjacent to territory may also count as part of the territory. In the limit, lines in continuous go would have no width and therefore count towards nothing. However, I am currently including the lines in the score whenever they are either inside an occupied area or on its border. I do not include lines that traverse through an unoccupied area, even if the lines are connecting occupied areas.

A go player must be careful not to form territory that is too small or too big. Although it would be more accurate to say that a territory must be the correct shape so that it can be neither captured nor invaded on its inside, I believe size is a nice approximation for this. If it is too small (and thus does not have two eyes), the opposing player may capture it. If it is too big, the opposing player may be able to form a sufficiently large territory inside it. I have translated these bounds into continuous go as numerical thresholds, lower and upper. Any group's area (composed of its connected section areas) must be at least lower to score. Any individual section area (within a group) must be at most upper to score. Lower and upper are currently equal, and I have yet to determine their exact values.

In both games, black goes first and therefore has an advantage. This advantage is offset by komi, a small, fixed number of points added to white's score in the end. I have yet to determine an exact value for continuous go komi; if this game turns out to be a successful translation of go, I would hope that the komi could even be a refinement of what is used in go (often around 7).

The ko rule in go disallows repetition of a previous board state (to prevent infinite loops). Because of the emphasis on territory rather than capturing, there is no analogous rule in continuous go.

One more phenomenon that (somewhat rarely) occurs in go is mutual life, or seki. Similar to zugzwang in chess, seki occurs when players jointly occupy a certain area and neither has any incentive to move there. In this case, both groups stay alive and the territory is credited to both players. Because lines cannot cross in continuous go, seki does not occur in the exact same way, but it can still occur. To give one scenario, imagine a series of concentric circles of alternating color, and let x = lower = upper (the thresholds mentioned earlier). Let the inner circle be black with area 0.7x, the next be white with area 0.9x, the next be black with area 1.1x, and the outer circle be white with area 1.3x. Note that from black's perspective, there is an area of size 0.7x adjacent to (because surrounded by) an area of size 0.4x, forming a group with a total area of 1.1x. From white's perspective, there is an area of size 0.9x adjacent to (because surrounded by) an area of size 0.4x, forming a group with a total area of 1.3x. As both white and black meet the upper and lower threshold requirements, both groups live. The inner 1.1x area is jointly occupied and the outer 0.2x area strip is white's.

In both games, the players may pass at any time, and the game ends when there are two consecutive passes. In continuous go, a player may also pass part-way through a turn.

At any time during play, players can check the exact areas of different groups. This is analogous to a go player counting up the score, but a computer is necessary to find areas instead of just counting. Once the game is over, the computer does all the scoring autonomously. Black areas are filled black, white areas are filled white, neutral areas remain unfilled, and areas with mutual life are filled gray. The areas and score are summed up and presented.

I am still in the process of implementing this game. Currently it is not playable across machines. Although the game fully works, the scoring is still pretty slow, so you can only play on a small board. After speeding up scoring I also plan to add a few features including allowing users to undo moves and draw lines in alternative ways.
